---
title: "02:47"
date: 2022-09-26T20:45:31-05:00
draft: true
author: "jks"
authorlink: "mailto:john@scholvin.com"
tags: [ "SAD", "autumn" ]
---

{{< jksfig src="/2022/img/IMG_0771.jpg" caption="say it with dead flowers" alt="dead marigolds" >}}

"Castles Made of Sand" by Hendrix.  Walking a Chicago city block at a moderate pace, or running six of those blocks at the world record pace. Microwaving a bag of popcorn.

The amount of sunlight we lose every day around the autumnal equinox at this latitude.

Einstein proved time is relative, but humanity knew that intuitively for eons before him. And you don't have to travel at speeds nearing light to experience it. Two minutes and forty-seven seconds in the arms of your lover isn't the same as two minutes and forty-seven seconds in an ER waiting room after suffering a compound fracture of your tibia. 2:47 of your daughter's ballet performance isn't the same as 2:47 of waiting for an elevator.

I should be ready for this. It happens every year, and I've been here for, well, a lot of years now. And while the _absolute_ shortness of the days in December is a nightmare of its own kind, the _rate_ at which we lose light in late September is perhaps more disorienting. Today feels appreciably, noticeably less light than yesterday...because it is. This is when the second derivative peaks. And I don't understand the physics of it, exactly, but there is something about the angle and color of the light right now, too. It stings.

I understand this is a minority view. Check a news site, or surely any social media app, and you will see nothing but rapturous people donning their fleece and ordering their lattes, sharing their family photo shoots from the edge of the woods against spectacular backdrops of gold and orange. What kind of sick monster could hate fall? Who wants to hear from any of those killjoys? 

Don't worry, the message has been well received and internalized over the decades. This is a Me Problem. And I'm self-aware enough to know that the accompanying unexpected cold snap that killed all my annuals a month before their time surely isn't helping. Neither is being [down a soul](https://scholvin.com/posts/2022/08/21/turn-turn-turn/) in the household. Or, you know, our fossilized domestic oligarchs intentionally [cratering the economy](https://www.cbsnews.com/news/fed-interest-rates-unemployment-inflation-layoffs/) to keep the proles and middle class in their places. There's also the eternal pandemic and the imminent end of the liberal world order, for that matter. And another ignominious end to a baseball season. [Not great, Bob!]( https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MpUWrl3-mc8) None of that is the fault of the tilt of the axis of the Earth. I get all that. I do. I'll go back to my daytime blue light gazing and my nighttime self-medicating, and leave the mentally well to their pumpkin-spiced fun.

The good news is, at least, that it's easier to get tee times on weekends now, because everyone's busy watching young men destroy each other's brains for fun and profit. It can be difficult to find your ball under all the leaves, though.

And, of course, my beloved candy corn is back. There's no controversy there, right?

